I don't think we can
hear France good to see
you all right hi John so it's 701 and we
will continue the public
hearing for the application of William
jev property located at 517 R 6 the
applicant is seing a special permit for
restoration a gravel bit in accordance
with section 16 of the zoning
regulations so do we have somebody here
tonight who is representing the
applicant yeah
William Will
please
owner
John I hear you I just didn't catch what
your name was William Jen the owner oh
okay
it's got a different name showing up on
the
screen to Manny Vios yeah that's my I'm
using this
Compu okay
um Mr chair one thing point of order
further record Mark BR before we start I
just want to introduce uh Trent Kasin
who was shown on screen zooming in with
us Trent has just joined our firm uh we
get the bar exam results on October 4th
or 5th but we are confident that he has
passed the bar so um he gets to go to
all the zoning commission meetings with
me across the state sort of find out
what these things are like
welcome you might have to turn your
volume down just a little bit we were
getting some pretty good feedback here
but uh if you can tell us about the
application you
have application I have I I I did this
the hill gym where we expain grass and
it's all straw mesh right now it's all
got grass on it straw
mess the slope on the side where it goes
down from the
dryway it's all it's already been
done completed
today
with Dam
it um it's very difficult having a
difficult time
understanding
all well slope that we that I had you
out of the property that time the slope
that slopes down has straw mesh on it
and grass and
Loom okay Bill is Jim howon are you
talking about the slope along the Hall
Road yes thank
you that makes it all stable there
so I guess um is there anything else you
would like to say about the application
that you have pending at this
point
no
okay agent Hy
uh yeah okay so
J
yes hi it's lean I couldn't make out
much of anything that Mr Genevie said
could you ask him to repeat it
or I don't know what else to do can you
hear me
okay um yep you're a little faint but
you're clear okay yeah long distance
call I'm a long way from the owl but
well Jim I think you got the gist of
what he was saying yes what uh and Miss
Bill if if I'm I never got any comments
on plan that I
sent about putting the grass on the side
of the the slope there grassing
it what's that we were required to
address your application in a public
hearing we were not allowed to discuss
it before we held a public hearing
okay
um
anyway if I say something inaccurate
Bill correct me please
lean what Mr geneves was sharing was
that he had put top soil along the slope
that runs along the hall and use a mesh
material
um and grab and
Loom and I got a high point on the top
Edge but the water is going to go top of
it say top of I got a lip on there like
a high point bur okay a BM along again
burm along the U the hall Ro yeah yeah
thank you water be directed towards my
propit will not leave the
propit
understand okay Jim did you have any
other comments on the application
well I mean
there's the application before the
commission is is basically the the plan
the um Reclamation plan and what it
shows is limited tap
soil um along the southern border I'm
calling it South it might be Southeast
border of property H property along that
side um but not in the bulk of the area
that was was disturbed no
no
okay I'm sorry Mr J what do you what did
you say again just on the slope
isal not toward Cent the
problem I ju Just for
the is it fair to say that the top soil
that that was spread out has been
buried during the course of the process
top soil that was set aside no I put
through top soil there we no no no I'm
not not talking about the top the recent
top soil but but in general the top soil
that that was
earmarked for the site for the entire
site was was
mixed over that okay got buried it got
disappeared I just want to make that
clear uh just it's been a while to do it
it
was probably about two3 of that was uh
sand when I started but it wasn't that
much Loom
there I said at the beginning that I
would spread the loom that was there
which I did and I got
lost but only inch there the front half
of the property when I first started the
back half was all sand s Travel
Mr geneves are you aware that there's a
requirement that you you know according
to your original plan spread four inches
of top
soil excuse me Mr jev do not interrupt
the chairman it's difficult in a digital
meeting and it's rude sorry about that
sir the chairman has finished you may
speak go ahead now were you aware of the
requirement that the top soil be spread
over the entire site that was
disturb I was aware of that yes in the
beginning but there was not enough
topsoil I just said that it was only an
inch of top soil half the property
didn't have top soil on okay but the
plan that you submitted to the
commission it was approved and is the
currently approved plan requires 4 Ines
of top soil over the entire Disturbed
site our regulation
requires at least two in Top Soil spread
over the entire excavated
area and so I don't see how the
application that you
submitted complies with our
regulation there was no 4 Ines
there hold on a second
okay the original plan was half the
water going to Hutson and half the water
going to me all the water going to my
proper there's nothing going over on our
property I
that was theal plan then I changed it
and I submitted this plan to the hill
which I
did straw mesh it's got Blom on it and
grass which there's no way it's gonna
GNA have any movement at
all any movement is going to be it's
going to be in the center of the Propet
by
prop I understand that that doesn't
alleviating your plan for restoration
complying with the zoning regulations
which require a minimum of 2 in in the
case of your previously
approved plan it was 4
in from the entire but I had to plan
change twice I submitted this one last
time you have to change the commission
cannot authorize any plan that is not in
compliance with the
regulation say that again sir I didn't
catch that the commission is not allowed
to
authoriz any restoration plan that is in
violation of the
regulations I'm asking not I don't want
to put the tops on my propit
I know you
don't you do what's that I didn't hear
that one I was talking start
talk go
ahead regulations require that you put
top soil over the entire Disturbed
area to facilitate growth
there grow there right now I don't want
I want I don't want to put top soil
because I just peill it off when I put
something there okay make my my my part
of my property all
mud I understand you understand well why
would I want to put make money in my
profit when I'm GNA do something ready
for
building I got I got it's a it's a belly
right there no water leav my proper if
it does leave my property it's going to
go to my other property it does not go
towards hus
property devil it's Dev if you looked at
the second play you had to do it
again you wanted a
b there got to be no
movement so I don't I I don't foresee be
put in Top Soil down for grass it's not
going to mean
anything no
we we've been we' had many years
nobody's gone into develop it I don't
know how many more years it's going to
be before it gets developed and we need
to stabilize the property the property
is
stabilized where's where where's my dirt
going where's my dirt going where's my
stand gonna go onto my property stay in
there into in the middle of it the way
you had me gr it's not going
I don't fore putting grass on top of
something that's not
moving right now it's up neck
High okay well I understand Mr jev's
position it's been contrary to his
approved plan all
along and uh I don't think we need to
have any more discussion on that well
you approved the first first one then
you may me regrade it I lost half my my
loom regraded it but satisfy you the to
have everything go in the center of it
now it's all in the center it I don't
want to put no dirt in there or glom in
there it's all it's secure on the right
side as far as I'm concerned it's not
going to
move I mean common sense if you go out
and look at the
Lock I got four or five Sil pends
alongside that too so where's it going
to go
tell me where it's gonna go can I can I
ask you a question Mr this is for the
record this is Mark BR uh commission's
counselor um do you have a certification
from a Connecticut registered
professional engineer that the site is
is stable in its current or proposed
condition and that there will be no wind
borne or waterborne erosion on the
site I have an engineer that did that
Mr howy have you received such a
certification from the applicants
in as Mr Bell indicated by in writing
that this site that there will be no ER
that as as proposed in this plan that's
before the commission that there will be
no windborn or waterborne
erosion no nothing I I recall no the
asil was done by not done by Chris Bell
but was survey at that point Mr Bell was
incapacitated and we had
done
FR coh of his be has so we've received
no certification that there is two
inches of LOM or or that the site is
otherwise uh stable for both windborn
and water born erosion correct
correct then our regulation requires the
area be maintained until the area is
stabilized and approved by the
commission and the intent there is you
have grass to hold the dirt to keep it
from blowing away or eroding away due to
water which we saw happen there were a
bunch of people that told me you would
never get grass to grow without putting
the top soil down I was a little bit
skeptic I'm a Believer now I saw that
the grass did not
grow and
uh so I believe our regulations are
correct when they were
required where is it not stable at
that's all I want to
know you're asking me if it's stable or
not you're saying it's not stable
where's it not stable at that's what I
want to know after the grass is grown
after what I put up there the land
stable grass is not the dirt's not going
anywhere that for the record again Mark
Branch that's your statement I I haven't
seen anything from an engineer CER will
do it after the Grass Grows I gota wait
for the grass to grow this week I just
put it down this week and if you
understood what I said I just put the
stuff down the grass don't overnight so
if you just put it put the grass if you
just put the lman grass down yeah then
uh how does that how does what you did
this week relate to the plan that's
pending before the commission now well I
was out there with Jim he says on on the
hill it's a little SP and I said W put
the grass on the hill I'll grass it and
everything and it will be
stable and then it's not going to move
there's nothing else he said about the
middle of it anything the other side of
it about moving because it's not going
to
move you had he had concerns about the
hill and what that's what I grasp with
the hill once it grows my engineer is
more than happy to sign off on it it's
not g it's got no movement
on with the plan that I that uh I
submitted there
of May of this year and here we are in
September I had no no nobody answered me
on this
thing grass all along the slope
now there's gr Mr H you were out there
there's grass growing now along the
slope I Haven I haven't been out there
in the last since happened this last few
days well I mean was there grass growing
a few days years ago on this
slope I didn't look at it a few days oh
I I I have to assume there wasn't
because there was no this was prior to
the top soil top soil went in over the
last four or five days I believe so the
loan went in the last four or five days
right in your experience does grass grow
in four or five days no so it's probable
that there's no grass growing there not
is that correct yeah and and just for
the record
I I never uh
indicated the seating on the inner part
of the the site was was not a
concern excuse me sir I talked to Jim I
I called Jim earlier today to didn't
answer his phone I call him to explain
that I grassed it I finished up grasing
it today so I don't I don't believe Jim
seing yet but it's grassp it's got straw
mess all the way down the slope I gotta
wait for it to rain get a little wet
probably a week or two it'll turn green
it's not going to turn green
overnight bill I think the larger issue
is is the the main part of the site that
was Disturbed it has no top soil on the
surface that remains to be it's still
that's a not in conformance with the
zoning regulations is what what
um is sort of the Crux
here my opinion
so I think we're we're kind of at a
uh disagreement it's
acknowledged the the regulations
required top soil that enemies does not
want to put top soil down that's
been his them all along in spite of the
fact that his restoration plan required
4 Ines of top soil over all Disturbed
services
do any of the commission members have
any other
questions at this
point is there anybody from the public
that has any questions or comments at
this
point Mr chair this is Katherine
Hutchinson I'm the adjoining land owner
to the southeast you're putting it from
perspective from Route Six along the
right hand of the subject
property as you're standing on Route Six
and looking toward the
river I also want to address of the
representation was made that the way the
property is graded now grades toward the
middle and no water would be
running the as buil that was done
previously by the engineer clearly sh
which was done after the grading was
done clear clearly shows the high point
nowhere near the edge of the access
road the plan that he filed with this
application does show a proposed new
high
point which apparently runs along the
top of the slope or joining the access
road it's not clear whether it goes all
the way to Route Six but it's supposed
to run from Route Six back to the back
of the property there has been no
grading done so that I'm raising the
question is to whether or not at this
point or whether or not it's something
the applicant proposes to do was to
regrade so at least it conforms to the
plan that he filed with this application
in other words the
asbill reflects the high
point toward his Pro property roughly
towards the west and it
uh they proposed according to his U map
that he file with this application to
repeat myself the new prop proposed High
runs along basically along the slope or
joining the access road so the property
at this point is not
graded so that the property so that the
water runs toward the middle of his
property
and you have compare that with a as
built you'll see what I'm talk referring
to I did note uh yesterday and today as
I drove by there were there was some
activity out there that looked like it
was greedy in that
vicinity um what was actually
done I can't tell I just know that there
was gring in progress so I can affirm
the fact that there was some grading
going on in that area
over the last two
days I I would also like to address Mr
Jen's comment that he got no
feedback on the
application we had intended to discuss
this
application at a public hearing we set
up in July and postponed it for a month
at your
request so that is why we did not get
around to discussing the application we
continued we we opened the public
hearing at our August meeting and there
was nobody
here to discuss the
application so we continued the public
hearing until tonight and this is the
first opportunity we have had to
had in the public environment at a
public hearing to discuss your
application I set the application in a
may I got no feedback from the
people about the high
point putting the grass on on the hill I
never got no no answer from
nobody but ites has a firm right at the
high point and it goes down into my
profit Mr J for the record Mark
BR you don't get feedback because it's a
public hearing the purpose of the public
hearing is for you or your engineer to
present the application to explain it
and to explain how it complies with the
zoning regulations and and with the
restoration requirements and so on then
you get feedback you don't get feedback
until the Commissioners heard your
application what's happening now is no
one is here in person to walk us through
the plans can perhaps can you do a share
screen and put up the plans and and walk
the commission through what you're
proposing I don't have that ability
right now okay so you that's not
something you're able to do right now I
understand you have you had had it
in I had back from new people so I took
it on myself to fix the hill so it
wouldn't aod that's why I put grass
there that's why the grass there and
there's a lip on the top of it
that Myer
it's not going to go towards anybody
else's problem plus I got three Sil
fenses along that
prop okay and I got a 150 foot buffer
before we even hit some of the problem
from where the sand
is I don't think you're giving us any
new information at this point Mr Genevie
so I'm going to move on well I'm asking
for a waiver about the 4 in alom
not ask I'm
asking but I don't want to loom it I
want to wait are you Mr are you
proposing two inches of loom on the
entire site no I don't want no Lo on no
Loom on the entire site is your
proposing no just on the
hill so the the rest of the the rest of
the site you're proposing no LOM is that
correct pretty much it's weed right now
okay I just want just to be fair to you
that means that you're proposing
something that violates the letter of
the zoning regulations and this
commission legally can't grant that
request only the zoning board of appeals
grants variances this commission can't
do that so they they could weigh from 4
inches to two inches if they wished but
they cannot raave wave the two inches on
the site and you've just testified that
you don't have two inches on the entire
site and you don't intend to do it
correct I don't intend to do it because
why why should I make my site muddy make
make mud on it that's why I'm asking for
a wa no as a matter of fact build on why
would I put Loom on there straight it
off put on you put LOM on and then you
seed it and then it's not
mud
right do any of the commission
members think there is a need to
extend the public hearing Beyond
tonight information that anybody's going
to want that we don't
have I I'll call the zon board of
appeals apply it
for okay hearing nobody that wants to
continue the public hearing the public
hearing on the property on 517 Route 6
is closed
I don't of the public were the other
members of the
public okay I heard Miss Hutch speak I
didn't know if anyone else any other
members of the public wanted to speak
are there any other members of the
public that wanted to speak on on
this okay public hearing is closed
7:29 I wanted to speak on a different
okay so
next up is a public hearing for the
application of the Bale soccer club
property of the town of vover Riverside
ride and Long Hill Road applicants
seeking special permit for lighting at
down home Recreation
Fields okay for the record my name is
Eric Anderson I'm the Town Administrator
I'm here on behalf of the Town also on
the call is Zach Edinger Edinger who is
representing veale East soccer so and
who submitted the application the reason
I'm involved is because this is
occurring on Town property therefore I
signed for the application
so do you want to walk us through the
application or is Zach G to do
that that's up to you guys you tell us
how you'd like us to handle
it Dak why don't you start off and then
I'll jump in where
appropriate okay um so I believe
everybody has the document that we put
together um with support of the town on
what we're attempting to do in the past
we have had lights on this site that are
temporary lights and so inside of the
zoning code for temporary lights there
are certain things that are really hard
for us to gather um including you know
the the the candle area that they
service based upon the location of the
light and or where they're facing um but
if as you can see we showed a photo of
what the um the lights have looked in
the past um and then we have a little
diagram towards the end of the document
that shows what we're hoping to do for
the upcoming season um so that that's
the gist of what we're trying to
do okay and so just to be clear the
applicant owns
one uh currently owns one set of
portable lighting that are 23 ft High
uh that are composed of four h hallogen
bulbs that is the one pictured on the
first page they're aimable and movable
um you can see they have a rear
reflective cone but they don't have any
additional
shielding um what the applicant is
proposing to rent um and given to the
commission earlier were cut sheets for
those applicant or those applications
were 23t all um light towers that
utilize four LED lights each that are
roughly 230 watt
bulbs um so I did reach out to the
manufacturer and attempt to get cut
sheets and an ISO diagram for the
lighting um they were not able to
provide me with anything
frankly um so what I provided you was a
similar
uh set of specifications for a gener set
of portable lights which also use four
LED lights mounted at the same height as
the uh the ones that the applicant is
proposing ordering um and which have a
higher intensity higher total number of
lumens and higher total number of Watts
than the ones that the applicant is
using um so that is the information
we've been able to provide and if you
look there is a ISO diagram of the light
output for a light that is that is aimed
5 degrees above horizontal for the round
can which is almost identical to what is
on the existing single light and then on
the last or on page three
you have the iso diagrams for the uh
equivalent of what they're planning on
putting on and then on the last page
superimposed on the field diagram is the
location and the basic aiming of the
lights that the applicant would like to
use so that in a nutshell is the
information that we have
okay agent
Hy your comments on the
application yes thank you um well it
does not appear that there
are the lights proposed our night sky
compatible um and I understand why um I
did have fairly extensive con
conversation with Jeremy Wilson who was
involved with with bale soccer but
nonetheless
the regulation calls for night sky
compliance and this application did not
meet that requirement also the lumens a
little confused about but um my
understanding is we have a cut sheet
from from another manufacturer a
different manufacturer um it's not clear
to me that how I would apply that to
this my understanding they're they're um
more substantial they're they're higher
or brighter and therefore I think the
logic was that these the lights that are
proposed would have less inact but but I
don't know that's per fact
actually
um that's all I
have okay any comments from anybody on
the
commission y um I'm just curious the one
that's current one that we have the
picture of how tall is that Tower and
how tall are the proposed Towers uh
they're basically the same height those
towers are all around between 22 and 23
ft long
okay um so the the difference is the
type of a bulb that's going to be used
correct and then you have more this was
just they only have one right now no
that so that is one single unit that has
four buls that are all independently
aimable uh the new unit
that they're proposing to rent also have
four independently aimable
folds um we're doing six of
them
so I don't think so one two three four
five there's six shown on here um but
that is because two are existing Town
lights that are field security lights
that are there anyway so what he's
proposing is to bring on three
additional units
um and use the one temporary that he
already
owns the town lights the yellow the
yellow versus the orange yes
correct thank
you D could I suggest that we read the
regulations before we do
anything
certainly and in happy
to do that I uh because I read them and
I I see no none of the information
that's supposed to be available to us on
the I agree with that comment rather
than read all the regulations I would
kind of like to focus on those things
that I was looking for and didn't
find and so you know in section 4.21 of
our regulations lighting regulations in
all zoning
districts it talks about
all exterior spotlighting flood lighting
shall be so shielded that the light
source cannot be seen from adjacent
properties and no lighting shall
constitute a hazard to drivers at night
on public
streets next line down outdoor lighting
shall be dark sky compatible full cut
off type fixtures defined as Lumin a or
light fixture that by design of the
housing does not allow any light
dispersion for direct layer to shine
above 90° horizontal plan plane from the
base of the light fixture lighting at
the property line shall not exceed 02
lumens per square feet so that was those
were the three things that I was looking
for for
421 on Section
23.5 B1 lighting regulations requiring
site plan or special
permit under
23.5 b.1 point2 submission of lighting
plan applicants proposing the
installation of outdoor
lighting shall file with the commission
a lighting plan subject to the site plan
reviewed said plan should be designed in
accordance with lighting standards and
requirements and shall contain the
following location height type of about
door lighting poles and luminaries
including building mounted luminaries
The Luminaries manufacturers
specification data including movement
output and photometric data showing cut
off angles the W engine type of lamp I
led complex perin high pressure sodium
Etc an ISO diagram or photometric plan
showing the intensity of the
illumination expressed in lumens per
square foot at ground level including at
property lines hours of business
operation when lighting will be turned
off or reduced the security levels and
by what means automatic n solar switches
Etc theing supports and fixtures are now
within 50 ft of a property line of a
property that either contains a
residential users within a residential
district and then I went down to the
part that we recently modified 23.5 B3
modifications modifications to this
section for public outdoor recreation
facilities may be permitted by the
commission by special permit a lighting
study should be required to determine
the maximum recommended lighting fixture
height in maximum Lum per square foot
based on the type and intensity of the
sport or use in the size of very
Illuminator the maximum Lums for square
foot will not exceed the value specified
in The Illuminating engineering Society
of North America publication RP
6-15 Sports and recreational area
lighting for us pickle ball
so those and I know that's asking a lot
for the temporary lighting
system but I think it's important at
this point that we go back to why we're
here
today and as I recall this became an
issue last
October because we had the lights at the
soccer field shining directly across
into a neighbor's house and the they
were complained about
that we ended up not pursuing the matter
because we came to the end of soccer
season but we've had essentially a year
to address this issue and figure out how
to uh to do it properly because I think
you know I certainly have no opposition
to lighting the field that you know I
looked up online Bale's a great Sports
uh I know they do a good job with what
they
do but we kind
of in last December and in January we
actually revised the lighting RS and I
was hoping at that time that there would
have been a representative from Bale
Bale Sport Club that uh you know
participated in some of those
discussions so that you know that would
have been the ideal opportunity to uh
fix the regulations and and see what we
could do to make it
possible
um so that's those were the regulations
that that I was looking for Scott the
information spelled out that that I did
not
see any other questions from any other
commission
members can I ask a quick question or is
it not yet the our our time oh go go
right ahead thank you so the regulations
that you just read off are they specific
to permanent lights versus temporary
lights or are they for all lights and I
I'm sorry that I don't know that answer
outad of them I think it's for all
lights we certainly have no
no specific regulations for temporary
lights or permanent lights we just have
you know the purpose of these
regulations is provide specific outdoor
lighting standards in order to avoid
upward illumination reduce flare and
avoid light thres trespass on adjacent
properties in public streets so when I
look at the intent it would apply both
to Temporary and permanent headit and
and again excuse my naivity but when um
there are Street for Street work by the
state or the town do they apply for a
permit with you guys before using
those the town yes the
state I can't swear to how that works I
I don't know this is attorney Branch
record Mark Branch the state is is
exempt from local zoning so they don't
they don't have to comply with local
zoning the to the town does Private
clubs do developers do Etc so do you
guys have any past applications from the
town that we could review and see what
we're missing from
ours we do um when when we
uh put up the lighting for the new
community Senior Center they had a
lighting plan but was that terminant or
was that temporary that was perminent
right I'm saying from from a temporary
perspective no we had no we have no
other applications for temporary
okay so when the town when there are
lights that are being used for
construction work right Road lights for
the S the town and things like that they
don't need to apply and and have the the
um specific details for you
guys I don't know the answer to that
question okay and again I'm not trying
to be tough I'm just trying to see how
we can compare what we're trying to
accomplish um on a Town property with a
leas in place versus what has been
potentially done in the past um and and
obviously I I appreciate your comment
about the the winter of last year and we
did miss that um so I apologize about
that but in potentially what we are
looking for is if we can do the two
months that we require based upon our
lease that's in place and then maybe
revisit it together um for a longer term
solve so I don't know if that's
something that we can potentially talk
about together as a group
so I went out and looked at the light
fixture that you have out there
now
and if you know and that's the one that
Eric provided the photo of that's a
little difficult to see at a
distance but I do think you might be
able to make something like that work I
know the lights on the bottom half of
the pole because of the mount you can
rotate those down a full you know they
can be flat out parallel to the ground
with no tilt on them at all so you can
make those dark sky compliant I don't
know that they would have to be all the
way
down to be dark sky compliant you can
have a little bit of tilt because you've
got the cone on there that Shields it
and so you can slant those out towards
the end and have no light come above the
Horizon as long as that the top edge of
your cone is at 90° or below so that
gives you a lot of latitude the upper
lamps are a little bit harder because
that VI
Mount prevents the lamp from rotating
down as far as you would need to rotate
it to uh make it dark sky
compliant that's that's just a straight
piece of metal that go goes around I
don't know if you could get from the
person that you rent them from uh
permission to bend it so that it can
make it to where you can Shine the Light
down
or um make your own VI for the upper
lamps and go there but but there are
things that you could do with this this
light that I think make a dark sky
compliant that's that's just my guess I
certainly not a lighting engineer in the
the thing talks about that um can I ask
another question then I'm sorry based
upon your
comment is that okay sir
sorry okay so if I understand based upon
the dark is the dark sky compliance your
biggest concern based upon the
regulations or is it the the the
neighbor or like how do we
work together and is so I guess that's
the question is is the dark sky
compliance your biggest
concern I I think you know I and I'm
only one member we've got you know five
different commission members I don't we
haven't discussed this yet because
that's what the public hearing is for
sure my personal thought is I think
they're both important because you know
dark sky compliance is getting to be a
big deal and the neighbor who had the
lights shining directly across the field
into their window I thought had a valid
concern so I I kind of got both of
those um and I would also you know I
wanted to point out that that in here
where we talked about this
uh
this Illuminating engineering Society
for North
American Sports and recreational area
lighting it has a couple of different
examples in there that show Shields that
you can make to put over a light so that
they can become dark
skyli so I think you can do it it might
take a little bit of
Ingenuity but if you want the lights
that would uh I think I think it's
possible without an awful lot of
difficulty to comply with our
regulations
any other
questions R this if they rolled this
fixture over they would have to they
still would have to be
shielded if they they rolled that whole
thing over 90 degrees they still have to
have
shielding
uh are you saying that because the back
of the con is open
then yeah I didn't look at it from that
perspective again you know the uh that
Sports uh and recreational area lighting
guideline showed a bunch of different
you know you can put a box over it or
they had different kinds of
shields
um Can can I ask can I ask another favor
I'm sorry can I just ask that we
identify ourselves so that I know who's
talking about that is that something
that normally happens in the town
meeting we can do that I'm J lar the
chairman we're usually on
Zoom yeah so um I will ask that the
people including the commission members
when they speak identify themselves just
so Zach can know who we are here too
thank you
guys um any other comments from the
commission on the application we have
reports I have a question general and
this is Amar deel one of the commission
alternates is there a time limit as far
as how late these lights can be on that
is
reg there is not a specified time limit
the uh the intention which is in here it
says one of the things we're looking for
is we're looking for the
applicant's desire how late does he want
to have it on and and then you know we
can go with that but we're trying to
figure out how long are the lights going
to be on and that sort of thing um you
if we're going to be out playing soccer
at 3 in the morning that's a different
picture than I think what they normally
do is they stop like 8 or n o' and so
but but that's what we were looking for
that's what I was looking for in the
application to tell us that kind of
information thank you any other
commission members the end did you have
a
question no okay I'm going to move to
can
I
no and a couple other questions I think
yeah and CR um the the plan with the map
there it looks like most of the lights
are on the side of Riverside Drive so
that way they're aiming away from the
how is that
correct there's only one that looks like
it might be facing the uh houses on the
other side there of Riverside
Drive so that's that's a good thing I
like that
um I guess it's too bad you can't get
the Towers taller so that then the light
would be aiming down more and still
Illuminating the field but I guess May
the limitation and reportable Light
great anybody from the public that would
like to comment on here and Han yes um
for the record Hank Bruner on the
Conservation Commission and one other
consideration that the the commission
should be aware of is that the town's
recreational field um since immediately
adjacent to two very important natural
resource areas one of them is it's
immediately along the Hop River and then
on the uh Western adjacency is uh a town
par larget Town parcel that is flood
plan with a fair number of natural
habitats including veral pools um one of
the concerns uh with gar Skies or the
connetic some of the Connecticut
Lighting in around conservation is
associated with migratory birds so um I
I would agree with the recommendation
that follow follow a you know some level
of shielding and I don't know whether
there are companies that actually make
shielding or an inquiry could be made to
the vendors or um you know that you're
that you're using F to see if there is
shielding available that can be used to
adapt to the to the uh units so that
they're downcasting the light and not
bleeding it into the horizon or shooting
up um the second major part though is
the timing of the activities uh around
migratory patterns or when frogs are
falling and the recommendation is
basically we are between August 5th the
migratory season between August 15th and
November 15th that the lights should be
shut off and I'm assuming that this
would probably be easy unless there's
some pretty late night soccer going on
um between 11:00 p.m and 6: a.m. there
should be no lighting and then again the
same time FR April through May 31st
April 1st through May 31st uh no
lighting between 11: and 6 11:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. a lot of those birds
migrate at night um the vernal pools
would be
addressed pretty much by because
somewhat with a distance generally we
look at within 750 ft of the pools uh
these pools are with I measured it with
about 650 ft but if they were down if
the if the units were not bleeding that
way which they don't appear to be in the
layout that you had I don't think it
would be an issue for that side of U for
the girl pools of the frogs using those
um so that's probably a lesser issue but
want to just keep in mind that that is a
natural area there and maintaining you
know as much downward directed light as
possible um on that western side
especially is uh is pretty
important any other comments from any
members of the public
not yet sorry with this
application no
oh so Jay this is scotton speaking on
commission anyways if you allow them if
they put shielding and all this does it
still have
to meet all the guidelines in the
regulation
wow that's
it yes I mean there's there ought to be
some ways that we can work you know we
can make them as hard as possible or as
easy as possible but we ought to address
each of these things here and I think if
you went back and you looked at the
lighting plan I guess the town did have
a lighting engineer I don't know how
much that cost to do that um I I'm
guessing that we can get the light
levels
adjacent below that point2 lumens thing
you
know but I would like I would like
[Music]
to see a plan that at least
recognizes that we're going to make an
attempt to do that even if we were to go
out and get a light meter so that we can
measure the light you know and a light
meter is like 15 or 20 bucks um you can
get an app for your phone
okay yeah so so it's it's not hard
um I do think yeah so so yes we is as we
just talked on the last public hearing
that you sat
through we can't not comply with the
regulations you know that we are all
fored to do that when we uh when we
accept the position is that we're going
to uphold regulations and that doesn't
mean that I don't make one now and then
but I do my very best to try and meet
him and and I think Eric would tell you
that you
know he's had to do some things that he
wasn't really excited about because they
were required by the regulations and so
we in and all that is way different than
the application we've got in front of us
tonight which doesn't address any of
those things I say that this is scan
again but you know if you go through
these there's a lot of regulatory things
that are in these regulations that need
to be
addressed the paring the parking
lighting is different than the field
lighting um you know
there's there's two pages of
regulations everybody really should read
that Mr chairman Mark bran the record
one question is this a site plan
application or is a special permit
application special special
permit I just the time it had to
be is the neighbor to the soccer
field on the call
tonight okay good J
um so with
what what I would like to do and looking
for feedback from the commission is we
hold the public hearing
open and and try
and can I speak to that before you guys
make a motion on that please so is that
okay I'm sorry is it the right timing
for me no this good okay so first anarie
you know to your point the timing would
be as the season gets later and they
need to go on earlier they would go on
earlier but they would be off rough at
9:15 once the kids are safely back to
their cars the levels of the lights are
determined a little bit on the safety of
the players these are temporary lights
not permanent lights therefore we we ask
for a special permit for the length of
time that we're looking to add the
lights um our club brings 200 families
to the town right that also support the
local businesses and everything else in
that local area if we move to extend
this to the next meeting then our
ability to run our business in your town
is not going to be the case we're going
to have to change our lease and we're
going to have to move to find a venue
that can support the kids safety in
playing soccer in the evenings 200 plus
families and so I just want to point
that out that we asked for a special
permit based upon the timing and doing
this in the proper order we didn't we we
haven't moved the lights there we can't
get the light meter and all of those
things until we get the approvals from
guys so that's why we went forward in
the direction that we
did record Mark BR I think that deserves
an answer if timing is important and if
the number of families involved is
significant then you should have come
here prepared tonight ready to address
the criteria the regulations and provide
the information that our regulations
require the chairman is being very kind
by offering to keep this public hearing
open he could just close it tonight and
your application would be denied because
it is incomplete and not compliant
so try to try to keep that in mind thank
you
sorry no I I do recognize the advantages
L down and I think that there is a
win-win answer out
there put the energy in to uh to getting
it yet and I cannot in good
conscience ignore what we have in our
regulations and I can't ask any of the
other commission members to do that
either I'm story but that's just not
that's
just that's not how it can
go so
um so I will keep public I do recommend
to the commission that we keep the
public hearing
open and uh
if if the soccer club you know chooses
to go someplace else I guess uh um
that'll have to be that way I I hope
that uh that isn't there but you we
could have been working on this for the
last year and
uh and and didn't and and I know that
there's probably lots of blame to go
around there that's not just on you guys
but uh that's where we are you can't
come in and ask me to approve an
application that doesn't doesn't be the
requirement
so I'm not going to make a motion I'm
just going to go ahead and continue the
public hearing to the next
meeting and
uh we'll make a decision at
that any questions on
that so what would the next step be
would they have to just resubmit or just
edit what they already submitted they
need to come in and tell us yo here are
the characteristics they they need to
come in with a plan that addresses our
regulations you know they need to be
able to go through there Point by point
and address it not just say we just want
to put up lights and and I know I'm not
trying to be insulting or prous or
anything like that but um and and maybe
that's something that the town need to
spend a little money in to to help it
out because it is good for the town I
don't know but it's not the commission
job to engineer that with public
hearing but the answer your question is
they don't have to start over if the
hearing were closed and Deni they have
to pay a new application fee they would
have to be a new public hearing but by
keeping the hearing open they're allowed
to supplement their
submission uh with an eye toward
addressing the regulatory
criteria and and by the way some some of
the lighting manufacturers will help you
with light with the autometric
planes thank
okay so it's
8:04 we will continue uh this public
Hearing in our next
meeting
and do you have a date on the agenda
when when that's going to
be looks like October 15
okay that concludes the public hearings
for
[Music]
tonight it
is 8:05 I will call the regular meeting
to
orderers roll call seating of
alets I see all of the regular
commission members are
here and I see an Marie is here as an
alternate and that is
it additions or changes to the
agenda I would like to add new item
under new business 6B solar panel
installation at Andover Elementary
School any other changes to the agenda
that anybody has in mind
hearing none I'll make a motion to add
new item
6B Elementary School solar panels to the
agenda second okay thank you an any
discussion all in favor say I I
I
we I okay
okay motion passes
500 first up a public comment limited to
concerns and issues not on the
agenda I think you're going to want to
talk about something that is on the
agenda I like you tell me what you want
to talk about sure my name is bar Kyle
I'm on 425 R six um I wanted to talk
about the concerts that are being held
right behind my property yeah so that is
that is a new business item you know
that we will be talking about and I
think
sure well we won't
necessarily give you an opportunity to
talk about that tonight I'm thinking
that what we say about
it you'll know when you do have the
opportunity
to okay thank you
but uh first up is the
application of William Jenner 517 Route
6 special permit for modification to an
existing special permit to operate a
sand gravel
operation
um I think I think it's pretty cut and
dried that that the application does not
meet the uh requirements of
regulations modification he doesn't want
to put any tox out of right and in spite
of the fact that his his restoration
plan has continually said four Ines of
top soil he repeatedly said he doesn't
want to put any top soil in there so
there was there was a disconnect between
him and
himself for the last several years
um any other
comments on
the restoration plan for the Gravel
Pit any questions for the restoration
plan for the Gravel Pit actually BR
modification
[Music]
modification okay here we
none
Jim hi Le hson um was the last month the
application fee had not been paid has it
been paid since
then yes it
has okay thanks yeah I think it was I
thought it paid right before the meeting
last time it's been paid
otherwi
okay so the way I understand that
motions go is that we are always
encouraged to make the motion in the
positive and if you don't like it you
can vote against it as opposed to the
negative and if the negative motion
doesn't pass you don't know where you
are with with that in mind I will make a
motion to approve the application of the
modification to the existing special
permit for restoration of the sand and
gravel
operation looking for a second and thank
you that's a second
any
discussion any questions yeah go ahead B
this is Patrick dhy um I'm just new to
this special permit and the modification
to it and I I'm wondering what the
actual vote is for is that for an
exemption of the tox oil requirement or
just a
modification the vote is on the modified
restoration plan that presented that did
not have any
pop we we cannot he cannot Grant a
waiver for a variance he would have to
go to his only board of appeals for for
that than if he wanted
to any other questions or
comments hearing
none hearing none I call for a vote
Dan pleas
no okay here it works
Scott
lean
nay Patrick GNA abstain for now okay I
vote nay as
well the motion
fails by a vote of zero
four in one
extension Patrick dar
moving on to
uh the next item is the application B
soccer club given that uh we continued
the public hearing until the next
meeting I do not intend to take a vote
on that application tonight and we will
move on to the next
item next item is modification to
parking at 17 25 School Road Town Hall
Community Center
here okay so all of you may recall that
as uh one of the things that was
required by the town for the application
for the endover community center was a
new parking plan uh so the town proposed
to the zoning commission a parking plan
for essentially the municipal camp
itself which en encompassed the
school the town hall the new community
center and the fire department um and
showed that the amount of available
parking spots after construction was
solidly in the middle between the
minimum and maximum required parking uh
so what we have there now is perfectly
compliant with the zoning
regulations however one of the things we
realized is that we are somewhat short
of parking directly in front of the F
Hall um we're going to make one
administrative move by taking a spot
that's now dedicated for a resident
trooper and moving him to around the
back of the building which will free up
one more visitor parking spot we would
also like the ability to put in one
additional parallel parking spot in the
area where there used to be two slant
parking spots uh most of you remember in
anytime you go to the town hall you
often see people parking in the old
spots uh those spots were eliminated
because uh it does not even come close
to meeting the the requirements in our
zoning regulation for the aisle wish the
zoning regulations require
24ot wide aisle if you have uh
perpendicular parking to the aisle so
with that slant parking
it's a lot less than that um in fact we
have uh had several minor bumps uh there
fairly recently um you know that I've
witnessed because my window looks out at
that so we're not proposing to put that
back in that was taken out with the
original parking plan however that spot
will sustain a single parallel parking
spot and still have well more than the
uh aisle withd that the commission's
regulations required so basically what
we're looking the town is looking to add
in a single parallel parking spot uh in
that parking area I did discuss it with
the zoning chair we brought his rather
large pickup truck out there um and
demonstrated hopefully to his
satisfaction that he could park in all
the spots and still not run into a car
uh handily that was parked there because
it's just a single spot my suggestion is
that that be handled instead of as a
full-blown application for a
modification to the parking plan for the
community center that you handle that as
administrative business and allow Jim to
make good
decision sure oh um how many handicap
spots are we required to have and how
many do we have are we both or
just so that is a good
question um so we
are basically we are
above the minimum if you take all the
spots for the community center the town
hall yeah um maybe by one there's some
question about whether we could convert
one of the one single handicap spot back
to a regular spot
I just thinking that there there seems
to be a lot of handicap
SPS and with the community center you
still have quite a distance to
go get to the community center I mean I
know there's that one right at the door
right but then the other ones you really
have
to kind of a far distance so I didn't
know what the advantage Hing back
spots well I I've seen so far for one of
EV four handicapped spots being used
concurrently um in one free in front of
the Town Hall so I've seen four of the
five available spots in use um at one
time for an event so a significant
fraction of the seniors that are using
the facility do have handicap stickers
so for senior center events um I think
pretty I wasn't sure we're at the
minimum or about that's
yeah any other
questions Jim do you have anything on
any question do you Jim Hy um Eric do
you know when those will be
stried uh so that's a good question we
have an inquiry in with the striping
company now um we're hoping to get them
out in within the next month um we
haven't uh the Public Works Foreman has
not outlined the striping for that spot
yet pending a decision by the commission
but I would assume within the next month
we will strip that than you or sign what
for the resident s do move the sign yeah
is that something we do
like yeah yeah we're just going to move
the sign take the resident state trooper
sign off and put a visitor sign here
yeah and what we've been doing is we've
tried to make it clear to employees that
employee Park Eng is behind the town
hall so that the people that are coming
in and out for short duration parking
the closer Lots which is led to some
grumbling
but that's
like thank you any other questions uh on
this particular issue for
comments okay I would like to I will
make a motion that we permit the zonian
enforcement officer to authorize minor
non-substantial deviations from the
approved special permit and I consider
the addition of this one parking spot to
be that minor non-substantial deviation
from the overall site
plan okay thank you Scott any other
discussion hearing that I'll call for a
vote Dan hi Scott hi lean you are un
I Patrick I and I vote I as well motion
passes
5 thank
you next
up discussion is to allowable use of
special permits at the property at 11
Bunker Hill
Road property known as fit Family Farm
And permitting special events in
general turn over
you want to talk to us about what you
had in mind or um yeah basically we have
uh we like to have um
concerts um
weddings
um do have a haunted um a haunted house
with a Haunted
Trail um just having more events at the
facility
um you know open up for if someone want
a
graduation I don't know you know some of
you have been down there in the see the
facility but I've done a lot of work to
uh to the property and made it uh more
um you know more friendly and more
inviting and um stuff like that um
concerts we've had a few um and
basically you know starting 7
ending at 10: we did have a rain out we
had one on a Sunday that went from 5: to
8 um being mindful of neighbors and um
and obviously you
know I was you
know you know understanding I don't
think we have a town noise but I know we
obviously kind is getting up there so um
the way I where I put myself stage uh I
built a a concrete pad and I have it
facing away from everyone going in
towards towards my building um so again
I try to be as accountable as possible
but at the same token try to utilize
property the best we
can
okay um the stage is already installed
well it's just a concrete pad so when I
say stages that's what they just play on
it's like a paper you
know raised it's raised up like not even
it's right on the ground yeah just like
a patio yeah
basically okay Jim do you have any
comments uh no just I want to go go back
in time a little bit here um when Ryan
first bought the
property there was come I believe I come
to the commission and kind of share some
of the thoughts that he had had bounced
off me and also when the um when the
Bible family there and at that time
didn't seem to be a lot of concern and
now when I had asked initially put it on
the agenda it was based on a
conversation I had with Ryan and then
there appears to be some concerns from
from Neighbors or at least one neighbor
um and I think the concern is
there and this this is not unique to to
Ryan's property by any means there's
special events that occur here and there
most of them are like one time or you
know on
occasion um and you know looking through
the
regulations properties in the indust
largely in the industrial Zone um some
of it's in the flood zone I don't think
that being utilized at all maybe some
trees are growing there I think
um so it's not if there's nothing listed
in the allowable uses with special perit
uses um that would cover special
events so I thought I would bring it to
the commission just sort of for General
feedback and then the specific concern
came up about um
conerts in
particular so
I'm sure this
is did give me a letter um he could come
forward the Michael picked him up better
stting that the
concert would be angled away from my
property I'm right behind him the noise
actually goes right through our Windows
like when we're closed when we have the
closed windows you're not sleeping it's
impossible you might as well just stay
up uh how do you make a rock concert
quiet I'm not sure I see in in
your in your website I see big speakers
and you know it's rock and R it's how
are you gonna I don't get it um it's not
that I don't like
music um it's just
that I believe it's seven times so far
and some there was two times on one
weekend so you're always wondering am I
going to have another weekend
just rock concert every day on weekend
so it is very disturbing um I have I
mother with me who's she can't slaved
You Know It's upsetting to we don't know
when we don't know when it's going to
happen so when you're saying you're
having events that kind of gives us the
the Jitters because why when are these
events what are they doing is it going
to be is it going to be Rock and R music
is it going to be athletic you know
we're not sure exactly what this is so
it sounds very vague it sounds very the
the request you have sounds very vague
and it sounds very uh like open to what
whatever you want to do so far it hasn't
been very pleasant to be
honest um why you would
think aiming away would prevent the
music or coming to our house I don't
know I mean sound goes right up there
it's just
I mean the way is going to work maybe
sound barriers might work I don't know
but um you know I did call once and said
this is loud you said you said no it's
not loud well I guess it's it's a matter
of opinion whether something's louder
than that if you're trying to sleep it's
loud if you're if you're out of concert
it's probably not loud
so
um I got it understand understand your
concern that's very
concerning if there was a limit to these
if there was a number if there was some
kind of schedule that would be very
helpful but I'm just
fearful we're going to have weekends
every
weekend especially if you you know
really
popular and U very stressing and it also
it also uh have you sell your property
have you're selling a house and by the
way those Rock H have so in addition to
the noise on round six there's a noise
from back there on the weekend so it's
very stressing so we look forward to
that pcing Qui and I I really
do you know don't want to have an issue
with neighbors I I really don't want to
you know I love his dog com you know
it's great yeah is there more but but I
just it's just the concert it's just the
noise coming in the house and it's very
dis disturbing just just want are you
right six I'm right under around six I'm
on for 25 said so I am right he's right
um Mr is right behind me so and on
the side yeah he's right he's right e of
the bar that goes across FFF and they
had like I believe the funky monkey
thing they had music you I was during
the day it was only a two times a year
and I was fine
but every night on the weekend it's time
it's really time so
so I think the purpose of tonight was
to see if we
can figure out maybe a way ahead the uh
when when I look
through I think you're primarily in the
industrial Zone in said so I look
through the business district were all
the things that you had the right to do
and all the things that were
special permited in the business
district and I didn't see anything that
sounded like an outdoor event B so I
said okay it's not doing doing that and
the reason I mention the business is
because all the
business things are incorporated into
the invest mod so it starts out if it's
if you're in the industrial Zone and
it's a business thing you can you can do
it using same kind of rules in
there I look through in the
industrial
uh things as well and and
certainly you know there's no outdoor
venue kind items listed by special
permit or or by
right it was interesting I looked in the
flood
plane and that's where
it came up uh the closest to me is that
uh you know one of the things you can do
in a flood plane is you can have
carnivals and and uh events like that of
course I can't find it right this minute
probably com yeah but but it does make
sense to me that you know if if you were
living
next it would be nice to know what the
limitations are just just like the
special permit that we're asking for for
lighting you know the neighbor wants to
know when the lights are going to be on
what's the worst Gates all that kind of
stuff when Jim brought the issue up a
year ago you
know I had been to an event over your
tree farm when you were doing Christmas
trees and you had hot cocoa and and
stuff like that very small event you
know but it's kind of expanded along the
way so we're not a Christmas tree farm
anymore we're turning into more of an
event venue and I'm not saying we can't
change the regulations to inove that but
that would take a little bit of time
because we'd have to figure out you know
what what are some reasonable
limitations and certainly because even
in the flood zon when we're having a
carnival or something which is a very
limited short time you know maybe once
or twice a year thing it would be by
special permits so that we can get input
from The Neighbors on that and so what I
would hope is that you talk to the
Neighbors at I work all this stuff out
and and have some kind of a thing so
that if we if we were to figure out how
to to get a special permit application
by changing the regulations then then we
would do that but I would encourage you
to you know talk to talk to your
neighbor and say yep I understand your
concern um I kind of like to grow my
business but but I I know you're trying
to do the right thing and in the town
you happy that who grow your business
but we've got to protect the rights of
the natives and so there's there's two
steps is first we would have to change
the regulation like we did with the
community center you know we didn't have
the uh we didn't have anything in our
regulations that allowed us to build
communities that are in a residential
area so we added it we would have to add
something and we need your help you know
what is that something but I think it's
kind of like an outdoor venue you know
you're talking weddings concerts and
that kind of thing and we would put some
kind of limitation in there to how many
of them there's going to be and and that
sort of thing so that you know the
neighbor is not saying oh God we can't
come up you know you agree with what a
reasonable number of those is that that
you can live with in the neighbor might
tolerate and that sort of thing so those
were the two those are the two steps
that I think we we have to do and and I
would ask ask K to work closely with
your neighbors so that you can you know
try to get him on your side for what you
want to do then I know if I lived right
next door to a rock concert I wouldn't
be real excited about that either but U
but I think there's a lot of good things
you can do down there that don't have to
make that kind of noise you
know it's ex your your business has been
expanding which is good I think it's now
you know it's gone on all of us that
you're no longer a Christmas tree farm
you're trying to be something else
and it's thank
you yeah question ISS well the Christmas
tree par is an outside venue so that
Christmas tree farm is a farm correct
but they we sell Christmas
trees and people com yep that's a farm
you know that's like selling
V so use right what was that consider
use right all right um yeah I'm just I
mean it's you're put restraints on the
business um that's right I'm kind of I'm
kind of at a loss and if we don't have
regulations what do you need me to do I
reached out to my neighbors I have two
neighbors one that's probably about 50
feet from the
stage he hasn't saying um and I did send
you guys an email with the readings of
the um Des whatever it's called that I
took when the concert was going on um
for those that didn't get the
email at exactly the same on my
property his house is here the
president's house is here I'm here on my
property and it was 64
decimal you walk up five more 10 more
feet towards root uh Route 6 was 72
decimal every single car that went
by all right with no music just the
Crickets and the bugs
55 excuse me you're it's clear that
you've never dealt with decel meters or
decel
regulations that's not how the
measurements are done just so you know
okay well I would welcome you guys to
come out and test it I'm just doing it
as a as a l i can I understand
understand I'm saying um the speak you
deduct you deduct background noise from
generated noise in a properly done
acoustic study but let me Mr chairman I
think I can be more helpful here
um what we're talking about is uh a
proposal for event centers filling with
a farm many towns have regulations on
this I've drafted several myself I have
reviewed several more what I can do is
I'll provide you with a couple of the
samples that I've seen work and I'll
tell you right in this there's kind of
two models for these kind of two two
approaches I know I did one for Scotland
I reviewed one for Sherman I drafted one
for I think Harford so I've done a bunch
of these um the two models are model one
is the regulation spells out how often
how what hours etc etc ET um so it's
sort of fixed the other model is where
you set certain fewer maximum minimums
but the applicant brings in their their
prop a specific proposal so the
applicant says you know this many events
this many people these hours this
frequency these days days or nights of
the week
and then you can approve modified
approve or deny uh B SED Abes they're
called Agra business um they're not
unusual they're you see this with um I
represented a winery in uh grany and um
uh as East Grand East Grand and they
have this sort of thing and I drafted
that regulation for the for the
development for for the farming so there
there's there's a bunch of ways to go at
this a lot of times have those
regulations the key to all those
regulations though is that you know what
you're approving okay and I would say to
you that until regulation like that is
adopted and an application is filed
under that application the
concerts and weddings are not an
accessory use to a farm so if those
things are occurring now they are in
violation so reg you do need a
regulation mean a keep serving hot
chocolate in a tree farm you know you
may say that's accessory but but but
weddings and concerts are not accessory
to a farm unless you have a regulation
that says so and like I say many towns
have adopted those kinds of regulations
so I can give you several samples to
take a look at and you can take a look
at those samples and see you can talk to
your own attorney about what experience
he he or she may have in these types of
regulations like I said they're not
unusual but you just don't have one yeah
I think we should you know we we've
talked about putting them ven you uh it
corners or something so we need one I
was a little surprised how close the
house was
to are you taking the sound of like a
truck Jake breaking down a hill I mean
if you do that imagine that for three
hours straight you know it's a big
difference no I understand and so the
way would work is first we'd have to
change the regulations that would
require a public hearing we would get a
chance to make your input at that then
after the regulations are changed we can
put in an application for his business
it's allowed by the regulations right
this
minute we do not have a regulation that
allows you to do what you're currently
doing so you have Revelations I say I
can't do it yep we do we do have
something that says well we don't have
something that says you can it's not on
the list of here's what you can do by
right here's what you can do by special
permit and it's not there's nothing like
what you're doing in either of those
sections is right it is a little big gr
and and that's why uh the best thing
would be to work closely with the
neighbors
and come to
me each other how does this compare to
things like you know they have concerts
at
they have music at the farmers market
like how does that compare is it because
he's a
business for
like I mean are the are concerts at the
lake are they I mean right there yeah in
the residential zones you do a lot I
know you have some stuff for
recreational uses in temporary events I
don't know I don't know how they handle
those I don't I think they probably fill
in a town permit request and and we do
it and and I hadn't looked at it you
from so they're allowed because it's
presal I'm not saying
that never looked at it never never
thought they asked the
question I I
had had thought could you somehow get
some sort of a like the Band Shell
shaped thing behind the performers which
would then project The Sounds away more
than what they are just sitting there
where the sound goes in all directions
it doesn't the stage is actually set to
push totally in opposite of his house
plus there's a big hill and hundreds of
trees that are buffering all that as
well um the stage is designed so that
the music is pushing and the speakers
are pushing out towards the river to the
Hot River not towards Route Six
um and like I said where I where I
registered
the sound there was no trees there was
no Hill it was a direct root path to the
stage as opposed to the hill and trees
but I understand thumping you know gets
you know can get Anno don't give me S
you know and I understand all these
things all these barriers are say
simply the only tool we have tonight
would be to tell you how to do it I
have't book for S so I'll let you know
that Tom was now to
go well again it's like every
weekend you know this is the problem
with our col is that we we try to we try
to do little things like this and it
gets shut down at all cost but it's a
big every every little business in to
but this I was this is not room how many
people attend this cont 50
people it's
not it's not a big it's like me it's
like me throwing a party at my house
except you don't usually throw a party
at your house two or three days a
weekend but I could actually no you
probably couldn't especially if you were
charging admission are these free there
there's no admission there's donations
there's donation oh got donation that
courts have sorry courts have held that
accepting donations is still commercial
use that doesn't that doesn't cut judges
aren't that
stupid I mean this is this is the
problem yeah you know what I mean it's
whatever trying to do we just shot down
on this top I I disagree with that
because we have we
have sat by why you continue to expand
you know the the nature of the events
you're doing over there over the last
couple years and you know it gets to the
point where you're not a farm anymore
you're an event an industrial comp okay
then apply for an industrial use it is
it is industrial
use my farm is industrial used I get tax
it on that way so so in the industrial
Zone event centers are permitted use
what was that event centers are
permitted use in the industrial zone no
they're not no no you have you gotten a
ceist order from The Zing okay so you
have not been shut down the chairman and
I are trying to explain to you that
there is a way to do what you want to do
that it is done in other towns that
there are regulations that facilitate
that and you're saying well then that's
shutting you down wait just second I
would do urge you well because you don't
have no permits for it now but there is
no permit for it that's right we one
develop it so you
can I'm not going to engineer here
tonight I don't know what the the
regulation would say and that's why it
came but that's why we put the list here
that's why we had to add municipal
building to the residential so we could
build the the seniors in and that was uh
where's a fair amount of churn about
doing that
then we got to do we got to do this
right we have to be respectful of
neighbors as well there's most of the
event venues that I see are pretty big
pieces of property where they are way
far
away okay yeah no I would say more like
AC and I recall you know Carter
Farm bigger place they've had the
complaints from The Neighbors about the
the concerts going on
there I don't know how to go look up
what the resolution was over there but I
do know they don't the day yeah to six
yeah they they changed because of the uh
the neighbors BR about sound so so
that's all I got for you tonight if if
want to pursue you know a change to the
regulation to that we can start working
on that
but we need have a little thought on
what you'd like to actually do M Mr
chair yes joh hi uh to for the record
John gusowski Town planner um if it if
it's appropriate I'd be happy to work
with uh Mr Fitch on on some proposed
options uh town of Columbia right next
door recently approved uh an event venue
text amendment to their zoning
regulations um as well as they have um
separate regulations for Winery based
events obviously this is a tree farm
it's a little bit different but um but
there are you know as as attorney brand
said there are different regulatory
approaches but the first step would be
to Define specifically what the
applicant wants to see happen there and
and shape some regulations around it
again it would be a proposal but if it's
appropriate I'd be happy to work with Mr
Mr Fitch on it
okay um do you want to see uh diry
Bran's uh models that he has or Mark and
I attorney Brans and I can trade
examples okay we we've done it before
okay so
that's that was that was the discussion
that that
hopefully describes a way to work for
you I think the town does want to see
you progress ran
see should just ignore you for like a
year and a half like the guy rout
six no I I again I I forth coming to all
you that's why I came to you guys and I
said it was coming um you know I reached
out to the neighbors to make sure it was
no issue and uh you
know we'll figure it out now I do we
kind of I like to do a haunted
umed house um Trail at the farm so that
would be something that we would like to
figure out there needs to be a permit
for that as
well the whole permit process is not
tied to the zoning regulation the zoning
regulations don't talk about this permit
process we need we have regulations that
allow you to do something now I think
the town likes to know what you're doing
so that if there's going to be a traffic
concern or anything like that they can
make arrangements for it but but that's
uh that doesn't tie into our zoning
regulations allowing you to do those
kind of
things and the only way our regulations
get better is when we find a hole in
them we go out and
Bas heavy
B okay
um having going to move on to new item
6B solo panels at the
school Celeste if you want to say
anything about
that yes um hold on let me just uh can
you hear me okay
yes all right all right here I am hi
thank you um so this is um this is an
initiative by the board um uh uh um we
this was brought before us by a former
uh Board of Board of Ed uh member Steve
fuss who uh has since uh resigned from
the board um but we've been uh trying to
get this um application uh approved
through um we've been working with Titan
energy and we were in a lottery to get
some assistance and after uh several uh
tries we were finally us selected um so
you know we'd like to proceed with this
um it would be definitely cost saving
for uh the school which in turn would be
cost-saving for the town um it's um in
front of you um what I had sent to you
um M uh to to you Jed was the um Power
service agreement um basically it would
basically be no cost to the school and
and no cost to to the town to to install
these uh solar panels um so um I think
in front of you you also have the um
picture of where the the panels would be
placed um and according kind of to our I
just miss and let me ask the commission
members if they have seen this because I
can't remember if I sent it out you know
it was so late breaking that we decided
to try and add it agenda that I didn't
but I do think John is able to share a
SC screen and maybe call up the picture
that has preliminary layout on it from
that document I sent you via email today
and I apologize for not sending it out
to the rest of the commission with with
all the uh there was there were a lot of
Boogie Parts trying to get ready for
toight no I I I understand you have a
lot on your
agenda John can you share and do that
and Mar do we need to let him do that or
John you
got this is Amendment
document yep it was
uh yes that's
what can you see my
screen don't see anything in it yet we
do see your screen but it's
black okay all right I had this problem
last night
um yeah
okay there we go you got it yep that's
it all right so Celeste tell me where to
go so if you just just if you just
scroll up John keep going um you keep
keep
going keep going right there right there
so that's the satellite picture of the
property the the first picture so that's
how it looks now and then this is the
preliminary layout so you can see
they're they're looking to put the
panels basically kind of over where um
like the middle of the school is if
you're looking like to the left that
that would be the the gym yep so that
middle part right there where it starts
that's kind of the middle of the school
and then it would come over yep and then
come over to the school and then that
bigger part where you kind of have your
your cursor yep right there thank you is
the the
cafeteria yep and then um and then the
kind of the upper part the the the kind
of the back part of the school up there
so they're they're flat panels um and
again with the help of uh superintendent
Bruno who's here with us this evening um
and kind of her research on this it
would appear that we we would be within
the the zoning RS um and
um you know we'd like to move on this
there is a time frame to it Titan energy
is looking to get you know autographs on
on this um so I appreciate uh Mr Larson
putting this on so early um to kind of
help us out with
that these are all roof mounted yes so
you it'll be essentially fled with the
the do I was just looking the r the only
thing I can see in in the r that's
specific is can't exceed 35
ft then
and and these wouldn't the the high
point there you right at the left hand
side of the picture doesn't have solar
panel on it and that might be a little
problematic but where they've got the
solar panels is all at least to my eye
well under 35
correct so I know the town supports
solar panels I think it's a good idea
there might be some you know bugs out
there I know you sent a letter to the
board of Selectmen asking for some
feedback on it um and uh you know as we
mentioned might need a building permit
or or something like that I don't know
but uh as far as compliance with our
regulations I didn't see any CH shoppers
out there
home look like it's permitted as of
right I'm just looking at 42.3
a Mr attorney Branson I'm sorry could
you just repeat that one more time I
said I I just took a look at the
regulation it seems to be permitted as
of right in all zones okay so so does
that mean that we would not need a
permit no you would need a zoning per
gym house you need a zoning permit a
building permit and probably an
electrical permit but you wouldn't need
need to come to commission okay okay
so perance
okay okay
um okay so then I guess just what's the
forgive me what what's the next step so
do I get your blessing on this and then
then we go from there or I don't know
Valerie you want to take
over no I just wanted to Jim I just
wanted to let you know um and I did
write down for us to to look at but we
have the singlephase electrical and the
plan is to continue with the single
phase electrical so um would we require
a permit if we're not changing our
electrical yes you would I'm not the
building off but I'm I'm certain that
the building official would would answer
that question in the affirmative
okay thank
you okay
so but anyhow that was the picture I
wanted to say show and I thought it
looked like it's going to work as far as
from zoning and any of the Commissioners
here have any questions for either or
Valerie at this
point and and I apologize I I didn't
have my pen handy when you said so we
would would need a building an
electrical and what was the other
permit
zoning zoning permit yeah so you're
definitely need material sheets from
the um whoever makes the product and you
should be able to work with the vendor
and get whatever
you it's confusing terminology I know I
get confused on difference between
zoning permit and Zoning
applications so it doesn't surprise me
that term I mean you'll be working with
a
contractor okay right right and they
would probably get all of these okay
okay all right yeah so these are fairly
complex applications for a fairly large
commercial solar so your Titan energy
will handle all that once you have
contract documents signed then you turn
that all over to them they're
responsible for Ping all the paperwork
they're going to need basically permits
from zoning they're going to need
permits for the building official and it
will also require regulatory approval by
the utility company um that will likely
be biggest delay the town could probably
approve that fairly
quickly you might wait a couple months
before the utility company will sign off
on that um but that
that's
okay okay
thank you for hanging in
there sorry I was a bit scattered I was
trying to put my daughter to bed and I
knew the moment you would say we were up
was right when I was trying to put her
to bed so I apologize if I seemed a
little um scattered so um thank you
thank you again for putting it on the
agenda I appreciate it okay yep good
night
thanks next item up is the approval of
the minutes public hearing
held August 20th and regular meeting
held August
20th now make a motion to approve the
minutes as
submitted anybody have any
comments okay hearing none call for a
vote and Scott
hello
y say I hi yes I I thought I was unmuted
I had a couple of um small changes
before we vote
oh okay um that think I have to find
minut and they my
files Go ahead
Le um the public hearing um not
Katherine huton was present at the
public
hearing but not also at the regular
meeting okay so your thought was we
needed to include her in a attendance
somewhere like
for public present right up there at the
top yeah for the public hearing okay got
it
oh and I think under the regular meeting
minutes under
5c um it's just a slight misspelling I
think it's meant to say um applicant
who um 5c applicant it says application
Who was appointed I think it's meant to
say applicant Who was appointed will be
up for re-election
Etc yeah it should be a period
there oh so do would say submission
received from Patrick D Donley and
Andreas Alis
period application applicant who is Appo
applicant who is appointed will be up
for re-election November 2025
okay very good anything else
the um yes just um there's no time given
for the end of the meeting probably not
a big deal but we usually say adjourned
at such and such a
time you know when it
was
no yeah there was no time motion
yeah I think only normally I'll
calculate it but I think because there
was an executive session I couldn't
figure out what time it
was to lateer um and then I just have a
question if we're done with that the the
time I don't remember what time it was
um under 11c Town
planner where it says nothing further
Scott psan reviewed meeting with Builder
and Eric Anderson regarding Bunker Hill
Road my recollection was that Scott Eric
my recollection is that Eric had
mentioned a property on Bunker Hill Road
at some point in the meeting without
naming it and then later on Scott asked
where that was so I'm I just don't think
there was a SC I don't think there was a
review of a meeting with a builder was
there
help me Le I'm having a hard time
finding in the minutes where you're
talking
about 11 oh
okay I asked about the meeting that Eric
had with the building
really the meeting Jim had Builder I
just stuck my nose in there because I
saw chatting somebody
interesting
so that need to
be which property it was and I'm just I
this just to me reads like there wasn't
meeting which Eric may have met with
somebody I think he didn't end up naming
the property I just read this as saying
that Scott reviewed something for us and
I think Scott had questioned where the
property actually was that's all just a
distinction there Beach property on bu
Hill Road that was going to be uh
somebody was looking at buying
it
and Jim had talked about the fact that
there there was a lot of his time to
went
into um working with the guy on
possibilities
here okay and
so so all I did was
ask I think we we eliminate that whole
sentence I mean if Eric has anything to
add later on tonight it would be
interesting if this talk went anywhere
I'm just making a distinction now about
um you know how much was actually
discussed last
month that was that was all I
had
okay so I will revise my
motion to be make a motion to approve
the
minutes as amended to reflect the fact
that Katherine Hutchinson was there for
the public hearing
under paragraph
C it says submission forceed for Patrick
D Don dley and Andreas Paul hus period
applicant who is appointed will be up
for reelection
November and then we will eliminate the
sentence Scott foran red meeting with
Builder and Eric Anderson regarding
Booker and as far as putting the time in
that we
adjourned
um by
mistake and uh probably not worth going
back into uh reviewing the the thing to
uh fix it so three no probably
not four Corrections
there okay so that's as Amendment
any other
discussion I'll call for a vote Ian I
Scott I
thean
I Patrick I and I vote I as well motion
to accept minut as amended
as next up is corespondence and
administrative reports Jim no
correspondence administrative reports on
have a few ongoing enforcement actions
um still working with gentlemen in Pine
R Drive trying to resolve that matter I
did Issue a season assist
to 580 Lake Road the owner of 580 Lake
Road uh the business being Benjamin
Franklin for doing really site work
without um permission without a revised
site plan and that just went
out um I'm also Al kind of dealing with
proliferation of of road signs
which I believe I'm I'm going to have to
come up with a way to handle
those we tend to be I noticed that
lately
too so I hope to have a solution for
that
problem I I have something in mind I was
actually going to share it with Eric
signs you mean political advertising
signs no business business signs I not
not in front like at the end of Lake
Road there's
there's four or five
signs um you know off off premise signs
they're not related to not Dollar
General how like people advertising for
power washing and yes that thing so on
eron Road and Lake Road there's on the
utility
pole house Wasing that's another issue I
don't know what Authority I have on that
our regulation say you don't put them on
utility that's pretty much except
that I don't want to do not I'm not
climbing a ladder on
six another Zeo that that we
represent took a pry bar and and duct
taped it to like a broomstick something
so he can just reach up
there I didn't see the St out you not
too long ago gathered upside they just
got their little
vehicle yeah I did um have a
conversation with the the Public Work
Director who said he would be happy to
hold these signs if I want to if I
notify the folks and tell them that the
sign is at the public works department
does he have to do that
no some of these nice but you don't some
of these signs are
cheap some of them are not you know some
of them are if they if I checked with um
with one of the kerma attorneys the the
uh Town Municipal Municipal Insurance
folks and they said if there are these
cardboard things that have minimal value
you just throw them out if it's like an
eong A platum sign maybe cost 50 or 100
bucks then you should probably say it's
you know it's I have it it's
available but the little paper ones or
or cardboard ones if you want to you
just Chu them I do I signs on the
highway they're gone very
quickly what
they're on their property they're
going was up
tel no the problem is when the state Ms
those things are so the god to get off
the mower for each one of them and go
get it and get it out of his
way what does moving before we moow if
you get one of those things wrapped
around our boom flil mower it's quite a
bit of work to
uh extract the metal they're pretty
careful about that because they have to
be anything else Jim no
John um I don't well I would just want
to recap U the fact that we had uh last
Thursday evening um uh a public
information session on the plan of
conservation development that a number
of the Commissioners attended and I
appreciate that I I thought it went
quite well um and I think it's it is a
good point uh to sort of kick off the
discussions for our next phase of
writing the plan um and I can work with
with you Mr chair and and Eric on uh
sort of scheduling I would say listening
sessions at upcoming Planning and Zoning
meetings based on um the six topical
areas that we've identified I think we
could probably start with I would think
um housing complete streets or
conservation uh and if Hank is still
there Hank expressed interest in in
having uh Conservation Commission come
and and speak with Planning and Zoning
about their goals um so I would suggest
we invite one of these groups to the
next uh to the next Planning and Zoning
meeting Hank is not here but I'm sure he
is well along the path of having his
chapter ready to
go so yeah oh yeah I think we start with
the complete streets okay so Eric we can
work on can work on uh that discussion
for next time I know you got that pretty
good shap that's
um and I actually have something for the
uh the lays on with d Wetland uh you
know Joe reported that that he is
satisfied with the changes over on 70
fine Ridge Drive where they got the
stuff out of the neighbors the fill out
of the neighbor property over there and
redirected the runoff and and he
considers that matter close
so that's
that mission discussion or
miscellaneous
any anything else we need to be talking
about
toight yeah Patrick um I've recently
been asked to rejoin the economic
Economic Development commission and I
was double-checking to see if I should
swear into the town hall or as
previously I was appointed as member and
I had taken time off due to work now
I've been asked to rejoin is that
necessary to swear back into that yep
okay and I'll do that we have a special
meeting tomorrow and then the other
question is should I reach out to uh Mr
Fitch for any other Assistance or is he
all set with working with the planning
his Zon I think John is g to reach out
to him and we'll let him work on that a
little bit to to see where we head
there's good models for right that out
there
meaning as as a task for the economic
development correct right that that
would be aside from Planning and Zoning
but I wanted to check with you and see
there's any uh conflicts of interest or
anything if if you get information from
a future applicant it could it could
disqualify you from voting on so safer
safer not too okay and um if he comes to
the economic development commission say
same thing you can you can listen uh
just you don't want to say anything mayy
determin is predetermination correct
future a
future fair enough thank
you and attorney grants in terms of
since you're considering changing the
regulations in the uh industrial Zone
potentially allow other uses like venues
would you want the economic development
commission to wait in on that um is
that's something where obviously you
have the final the zoning commission has
the authority to make the regulations
but that might be something that might
be a role for the EDC to at least go
Pine no that that's a good idea they
they certainly always got the ability to
with the public hearing that we're going
to have but associated with any
CH on what
we're working on
I think I said probably okay do we get
an application then we're not allow to
talk about it do we get to public
hearing any other discussion topics one
just uh sort of by way of introductions
a WR word those of you who have been
around for a few decades know that I'm
very protective of my clients okay I am
happy to work with anyone on developing
a regulation or concept I always have
samples but I'm not going to sit here
when someone accuses you of being anti-
business when you're not and when he
just builds a stage with no permits and
start concert with no permits I think he
knew better so um that that was that's
why I reacted I'm not g to let somebody
attack you without responding it's just
the way I
appreciate thanks
any other public comments and I guess
Katherine you're the only one only one
remaining from the
public yes thank you very much I have
nothing to
add okay thank you for hanging in
there
um next you're
welcome next meeting date venue October
15 location to be determined I think we
will be back to zoom only this what what
do people think about this year I you
know came over it work that was that was
a win um not opposed to
that find it's so much easier to be able
to share with people and talk with
people it is it is nice to get together
and talk a little bit why the weather's
okay I'm not approach to that uh but uh
again you know anybody wants to shoot me
an email with the what your preferences
are if you don't want to talk about it
here I'm interested in that but you know
zoom's been working pretty easy if we
can make this easy too my goal is
eventually to get into the community
Senior Center but we're not not quite
there
yet so we'll let you know where we're
going to be even then we might change it
at the very last minute
it yeah there's no internet weel how do
we handle the closing of the building
this building if we get out by 9:30
that's when the janitor
leaves the W out of the door lock shut
so Mr chair this is kathern Hutchinson
again if I may um I would uh appreciate
it and I'm sure many of us do would that
if for the time being they could at
least remain hybrid um Co is still a
threat to those of us who are in u the
category that we really have to worry if
we get it on my situation of course
being a very senior person so it's just
very nice to have and I appreciate the
um opportunity to participate without
having to actually come to the physical
meeting and I think you know it would
either be a hybrid or a zoom only um
because of that very reason and I know
John's got a long commute to get here
and uh you know there's there's other
people that might come in to provide
assistance uh and it's just an efficient
use of time it's too too easy to do but
I do like talking to all you folks in
person too that's kind of nice as well
well it would be nice to be there in
person but sometimes we have to make
Health choices so I really appreciate
being able to do it remotely again thank
you so my last comment is you
won like John said I I appreciate as
many people from play zoning showing up
at our information session it was a was
a nice crowd but uh primarily thanks to
Planning and Zoning commission and the
Conservation Commission I guess we had
all of the uh Economic Development
commission there as well so they were
perfect attendance too um want to thank
Eric for working to get the get the
building ready it was a little TCH and
go last Thursday I wondered I be able to
do it there I want to thank in for you
know setting up here tonight that and
helping us out
and appreciate the school letting us do
that and I appreciate all of you guys
staying engaged and uh you know there's
there's actually a lot of uh sort of mey
issues going on right this minute and uh
I need need the input from all of you so
and next month if we want to use this
building again we can be back in the
library Which is less echoing yeah had
the book fair set
up the chairs huh big are the chairs
like they're more comfortable in fact
they're
pushing so I make a motion to adjourn at
9:18 for second second okay thank you
Patrick any destion all in favor I Mo
pass is I thank you everybody then